doc: Add troubleshooting for UDP packet forwarder and devices (#219)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/gateways/semtech-udp-packet-forwarder/troubleshooting.md

---
title: "Troubleshooting Semtech UDP Packet Forwarder"
description: ""
---

This section contains help for common problems you may encounter when using {{% udp-pf %}} to connect to {{% tts %}}.

<!--more-->

### No downlinks are reaching my UDP gateway. Why?

With UDP gateways, if uplink messages are reaching {{% tts %}}, that does not mean the downlink messages are going to be received correctly by the gateway. 

The {{% udp-pf %}} sends a `PULL_DATA` request every ~5 seconds to pull the data scheduled for a downlink transmission on {{% tts %}}.

If downlink messages are reaching your gateway, the {{% udp-pf %}} should be sending `PULL_ACK` messages with a reasonable latency, usually way lower than 500 ms. If this latency is high, pulling the downlink data will fail. One of the drawbacks of using the {{% udp-pf %}} is that it does not have an implemented mechanism to detect if pulling the downlink data fails, so your data might end up lost. 

> Common reasons for having latency issues between the gateway and {{% tts %}} Network Server are using the router that is too far from your location, and using cellular or satellite backhauls for gateways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common reasons for having latency issues between the gateway and {{% tts %}} Network Server are that the gateway is geographically far from the network server, and using cellular or satellite backhauls for gateways.
```

Reviewer 2: Inconsistent casing

Try solving this issue by: 

- Checking your internet connection

> - Using the router closest to the location of your gateway

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using a network server closest to the location of your gateway
```

Reviewer 2: Network Server, but maybe `{{% tts %}} cluster` is better?
